#Introduction
This page documents the approach and high-level architectural considerations that will be followed in the design, development, and operation of the Enterprise Data Warehouse (EDW).

We will be following the Kimball approach to data warehousing. Information about the approach can be found here: Kimball Techniques. The team will be using The Data Warehouse Toolkit as a reference. The text can be purchased from Amazon here: The Data Warehouse Toolkit.

In a nutshell, the Kimball approach uses dimensional modeling techniques to design a star schema. A star schema consists of fact tables to record the events of the business surrounded by dimension tables which hold the descriptive data related to those events. Important dimensions, like Customer, Facility, and Vehicle, can be built once and used in many different fact tables. This reuse of dimension tables allows for consistent data for these important concepts and is called "conformed dimensions" in the Kimball approach.

Another feature of the Kimball approach is that it is iterative. This works well within Scrum since the building of individual fact and dimension tables can be done in sprints. Sprint 0 work has been completed to gain a conceptual understanding of all of the data that will eventually need to find its way into the EDW. A major deliverable from sprint 0 was a Conceptual Data Model (CDM) which can be found here: asTech Conceptual Data Model. The CDM was built both to document the data that is recoded in transactional systems today and to describe the entities and relationships that will likely exist in the future as transactional systems evolve, are acquired, or are replaced.

The conceptual modeling helps to achieve one of the main architectural considerations of the EDW--Transactional System Independence. Since the dimensional modeling and star schema design will be based on the CDM, we would expect minimal changes to the structure of the EDW as the transactional system landscape evolves. This is because the entities and relationships in the CDM are based on things that are true throughout the business regardless of how things are recorded in the transactional systems today.

Also delivered in sprint 0 was the identification of a set of fact tables that will likely find their way into the EDW. These fact tables and associated dimensions will be built out over time based on the priorities of the business. Even though some facts and dimensions may not be built for some time, it is helpful to have a conceptual-level overview of the eventual, entire EDW in order to adhere to the Kimball approach for conformed dimensions and facts. The next two sections on this page document the set of identified fact tables as well as the grain and likely dimensions and measures for each fact table.